# Module 10: Using Azure Machine Learning Models

## Lab: Using Machine Learning experiments

### Exercise 1: Publish a Machine Learning model

#### Task 1: Create a standard Machine Learning Workspace

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3. In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4. In the Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource**, in the search box, type **Machine Learning Studio Workspace**, and then press Enter.
5. On the **Everything** blade, click **Machine Learning Studio Workspace**, and then click **Create**.
6. Enter the following workspace information:
    - **Workspace name**: \<your name\>-workspace
    - **Subscription**: Azure Pass
    - **Resource group (Create new)**: workspacerg
    - **Location**: choose the nearest location
    - **Storage account (Create new)**: accept default \<unique\>
    - **Web service plan (Create new)**: accept default
7. Click **Web service plan pricing tier**, click **DevTest Standard**, and then click **Select**.
8. Click **Create**.
9. Wait until the workspace has been deployed.
10. Click **All resources**, and then click the workspace.
10.	Click **Launch Machine Learning Studio**.
11. Click **Sign In**.

#### Task 2: Open a sample experiment

1. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in the navigation pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**, and then click **+New**.
2. In the search box, type **sample 5**, and click **Sample 5: Train, Test, Evaluate for Binary Classification: Adult Dataset**, and then click **OPEN IN STUDIO**.
3. This sample takes census data details and attempts to predict adult income. It trains one machine learning model, the **Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree**, and evaluates the results.
4. Familiarize yourself with the experiment by looking at the **Select Columns in Dataset** and **Train Model** modules.
5. Run the experiment by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.

#### Task 3: Publish the experiment as a web service

1. When the experiment has finished running, click the **Train Model** module, at the bottom of the page, click **SET UP WEB SERVICE**, and then click **Predictive Web Service (Recommended)**.
2. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Export**, and then from the module list, drag **Export Data** on to the experiment canvas, below the **Score Model** module.
3. Connect the **Score Model** output to the **Export Data** module.

#### Task 4: Add export path as a web service parameter

1. Switch to the Azure Portal, and on the **Overview** page for your workspace, click the storage account.
2. Under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**, and click the **Click to copy** icon for **key1 Key**.
3. Switch to Machine Learning Studio, and click the **Export Data** module.
4. In the **Properties** pane, enter the following information:
    - **Azure account name**: \<*your storage account*\>
    - **Azure account key**: paste key1
    - **Path to blob beginning with container**: container1/output1.csv
5. Above **Path to blob beginning with container**, on the hamburger menu, click **Set as web service parameter**.
6. The web service parameter is now listed at the bottom of the properties box; click the web service parameter, and then change its name to **blobpath**.
7. Change the **Azure blob storage write mode** to **Overwrite**.
8. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Select**, and then from the module list, drag **Select Columns in Dataset** on to the experiment canvas, below the **Score Model** module.
9. Connect the output of the **Score Model** module to the input of the **Select Columns in Dataset** module.
10. Click **Select Columns in Dataset**, and in the **Properties** pane, click **Launch column selector**.
11. In the **Select columns** dialog box, in the columns list, click **Scored Labels** and **Scored Probabilities**, then click the tick.
12. Connect the output of **Select Columns in Dataset** to the input for **web service output**.
13. At the bottom of the page, click **RUN** to run the predictive experiment.

#### Task 5: Deploy the web service

1. When the experiment has finished running, at the bottom of the page click **DEPLOY WEB SERVICE**, and then select **New Web Services Experience preview**.
2. If you get a pop-up dialog box, click **Allow**.
3. On the **Web Services Management** page, if you get an option to select a price plan, in the **Price Plan** list, select your price plan, and then click **Deploy**.
4. Wait until the **Machine Learning Web Services** page has opened, before continuing to the next exercise.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have published a Machine Learning model.

### Exercise 2: Consume a Machine Learning model

#### Task 1: Consume web services using RRS

1. In Internet Explorer, click **+** to create a new tab.
2. In the address bar, type **http://www.telerik.com/download/fiddler**, and press Enter.
3. On the **Download Fiddler** page, in the **How do you plan to use Fiddler** list, click **Other**.
4. In the **Your email** box, type an email address.
5. In the **Country** list, click **\<your country\>**, select the **I accept the Fiddler End User License Agreement** check box, and then click **Download for Windows**.
6. In the **Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **Run**.
7. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
8. In the **Progress Telerik Fiddler: License Agreement** dialog box, click **I Agree**.
9. In the **Telerik** **Fiddler Setup: Installation Folder** dialog box, click **Install**.
10. Close Microsoft Edge.
11. In the **Telerik** **Fiddler Setup: Completed** dialog box, click **Close**.
12. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click **Consume**.
13. Click the **Copy** icon next to **Request-Response**.
14. Click the Start menu, and then click **Fiddler 4**.
15. In the **AppContainer Configuration** dialog box, click **No**.
16. In Fiddler, on the **File** menu, click **Capture Traffic**, so that it is not selected.
17. On the toolbar, click the **Composer** tab.
18. Change **GET** to **POST**.
19. Click in the **Composer** address box, and paste the URI from step 13 above.
20. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click the **Copy** icon next to **Primary Key**.
21. Switch to Fiddler, and in the Composer body text box, under **User-Agent: Fiddler**, press Enter to create a new line, type **Authorization: Bearer**, and then paste your primary key from the step above, ensuring that there is a space before the pasted key.
22. Press Enter to create a new line, and then type **Content-Type:Application/JSON**.
23. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click **Swagger API**.
24. Click **Submit request**.
25. Select the **Execution request** **body**, and copy it to the clipboard.
26. Switch to Fiddler, click in the **Request Body** box, and paste the code you copied in the step above.
27. Update the body request so that it matches the following code example:
    ```
    {
        "Inputs": {
          "input1": [
            {
              "age": 45,
              "workclass": "Private",
              "fnlwgt": 432123,
              "education": "Bachelors",
              "education-num": 14,
              "marital-status": "Divorced",
              "occupation": "Sales",
              "relationship": "Not-in-family",
              "race": "White",
              "sex": "Male",
              "capital-gain": 2174,
              "capital-loss": 0,
              "hours-per-week": 60,
              "native-country": "United-States",
              "income": "<=50K"
            }
          ]
        },
        "GlobalParameters": {
          "blobpath": "container1/RRSprediction"
        }
    }
    ```
28. In Fiddler, next to the address bar, click **Execute**.
29. On the left blade, in the results list, double-click the response.
30. Notice that the actual value of income and predicted income are different.
31. Click **Composer**, and make the following changes in **Request Body**:
    ```
      "race": "Asian",
      "sex": "Female",
    ```
32. Click **Execute**.
33. In the left blade, in the results list, double-click the response.
34. Try some more requests with different feature inputs, and then when they are completed, close Fiddler.

#### Task 2: Consume web services using BES

1. Click **Start**, and then click **Visual Studio 2015**.
2. Click **New Project**, and then click **Console Application**.
3. In the **Name** box, type **BESService**.
4. In the **Solution name** box, type **BESServicesln**, and then click **OK**.
5. In Solution Explorer, right-click **Solution ‘BESServicesln’**, and then click **Manage NuGet Packages for Solution**.
6. On the **Manage Packages for Solution** page, click **Browse**.
7.  In the packages list, click **Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi.Client**, then select the **BESService** check box, and click **Install**.
8.  In the **Preview** dialog box, click **OK**.
9.  In the **License Acceptance** dialog box, click **I Accept**.
10. In the packages list, click **WindowsAzure.Storage**, and click **Install**.
11. In the **Preview** dialog box, click **OK**.
12. In the **License Acceptance** dialog box, click **I Accept**.
13. Click **x** to close the **Nuget - Solution** page.
14. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click **Consume**.
15. Under **Sample Code**, click **Batch**.
16. Ensure that the **C\#** tab is selected, and then click the **Copy** icon to copy the code to the clipboard.
17. Switch to Visual Studio, delete the current contents of the **Program.cs** file, and then paste the code that you copied.
18. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 98, and replace **myresultsfile.file\_extension**, with **E:\\\BESresults.csv**.
19. Switch to Internet Explorer, in the Azure Portal, and on the **Overview** page for your storage account, under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**, and click the **Click to copy** icon for **Storage account name**.
20. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 163, and replace **mystorageacct**, by pasting the account name you copied.
21. Switch to Internet Explorer, on the **Access keys** blade, click the **Click to copy** icon for **key1 Key**.
22. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 164, and replace **a\_storage\_account\_key**, by pasting the key you copied.
23. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 165, and replace **mycontainer**, with **bescontainer**.
24. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, on the **Consume** tab, click the **Copy** icon next to **Primary Key**.
25. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 168, and replace **abc123**, by pasting the key you copied.
26. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 173, and replace **input1data.file\_extension**, with **E:\\\Labfiles\\\Lab10\\\Starter\\\Binary Classification dataset.csv**.
27. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 174, and replace **input1datablob.file\_extension**, with **BESdata.csv**; repeat this step at line 187.
28. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 198, and replace **output1results.file\_extension**, with **BESoutput.csv**.
29. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 205, and replace **"blobpath", ""**, with **"blobpath", "bescontainer/BESpredictions.csv"**.
30. In **Program.cs**, navigate to line 292, and type **Console.ReadLine();** at the end of the line.
31. On the toolbar, click **Start** to run the solution.
32. The application console now opens, and generates status messages. Wait until you see the following message, before continuing this exercise:
    ```
    The results for output1 have been written to the file E:\BESresults.csv
    ```
33. Press Enter to close the Visual Studio console.
34. In Visual Studio, on the **File** menu, click **Save Program.cs**.
35. Switch to Internet Explorer, in the Azure Portal, and on the **Overview** page for your storage account, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Blobs**.
36. Click **bescontainer**, click **BESpredictions.csv**, and then click **Download**.
37. In the **Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **Save**.
38. In the message box, click **Open folder**.
39. In File Explorer, double-click **BESpredictions.csv**, and note that the file contains data, with a scored probability for each row.
40. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\**.
41. Double-click **BESresults.csv**, and note that this file contains only the scored probabilities.
42. Close Microsoft Excel.
43. Close Visual Studio.

#### Task 3: Consume web services in Excel

1. Switch to Internet Explorer, and click **+** to create a new tab.
2. In the address bar, type **https://store.office.com/**, and press Enter.
3. In the **Search the Office Store** box, type **Azure Machine Learning**, and then click **Azure Machine Learning**.
4. On the **Azure Machine Learning** page, click **GET IT NOW**.
5. In the **One more thing** dialog box, click **Continue**.
6. On the **Get started with the add-in** page, click **Open in Excel**.
7. If you get a **Microsoft Office** dialog box, click **Yes**.
8. In Microsoft Excel, click **Enable Editing**.
9. Under **NEW OFFICE ADD-IN**, click **Trust this add-in**.
10. In the **Machine Learning** add-in pane, click **Add Web Service**.
11. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click the **Copy** icon next to **Request-Response**.
12. Switch to Microsoft Excel, and in the **URL** box, paste the key you copied in step 11.
13. Switch to Internet Explorer, and on the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, click the **Copy** icon next to **Primary Key**.
14. Switch to Microsoft Excel, and in the **API key** box, paste the key you copied in step 13.
15. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Browse**.
16. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab10\\Starter**, select **All Files (\*.\*)**, and then double-click **Binary Classification dataset.csv**.
17. Press CTRL+A to select all the data, and then press CTRL+C.
18. In Microsoft Excel, switch to the **Azure-Machine-Learning** spreadsheet.
19. Click **+** to create a new worksheet, and paste the contents of the clipboard.
20. Delete the top row to remove the column labels.
21. Click **Add** at the bottom of the Machine Learning add-in.
22. In the **Machine Learning** add-in pane, under **Input**, select all the available data as input, for example, Sheet2!A1:O98.
23. Clear the **My data has headers** check box.
24. In the box under **Output**, type **P1**.
25. Clear the **Include headers** check box.
26. In the **blobpath** box, type **container1/excelprediction.csv**, and then click **Predict**.
27. Note that columns **P** and **Q** now contain the scored labels, and predictions/probabilities for all rows of data.
28. Switch to Internet Explorer, and in the Azure Portal, on the **Overview** page for your storage account, under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Blobs**.
29. Click **container1**, click **excelprediction.csv**, and then click **Download**.
30. In the **Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **Open**.
31. In Microsoft Excel, note that this file contains the features and scores from for your most recent Excel test.
32. Exit Excel, without saving any changes.
33. Switch to Internet Explorer, and in the Azure Portal, on the left pane for the storage account, click **Resource group**.
34. Click the **workspacerg** link.
35. On the **Overview** page for your resource group, click **Delete resource group**.
36. In the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **workspacerg**, and then click **Delete**.
37. Close Internet Explorer, and click **Close all tabs**.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have consumed a Machine Learning model using the Request Response Service, the Batch Execution Service, and Microsoft Excel.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
