# Module 11: Using Cognitive Services

## Lab: Using Cognitive Services

### Exercise 1: Build a language application

#### Task 1: Build a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3. In the address bar, type **http://luis.ai**.
4. Click **Sign in**.
5. Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
6. In the **Let this app access your info?** dialog box, click **Yes**.
7. If this is the first time you have singed in, complete the **Welcome to Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS)!** page, and then click **Continue**.
8. Click **Create a LUIS app now**, and then click **+ Create a new app**. 
9. Use any name you like for the app, set the **Culture** to your own local culture, and then click **Done**.
10. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**.
11. Click **+ Create new intent**.
12. In the **Intent name** box, type **Help**, and then click **Done**.
13. Repeat steps 10 to 12 to create the following Intents:
    - **SearchHotels**
    - **ShowHotelsReviews**
14. In the left-hand side menu, click **Entities**.
15. Click **+ Create new entity**.
16. In the **Entity name** box, type **Hotel**, ensure **Simple** is selected for the entity type, and then click **Done**.
17. Repeat steps 14 to 16 to create a simple entity named **AirportCode**.
18. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **Help**.
19. Add the following utterances to **Help** by typing them in the box and pressing Enter:
    - What can I do?
    - Help me!
    - What are the available options?
    - I need help
20. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **SearchHotels**.
21. Add the following utterances to **SearchHotels** by typing them in the box and pressing Enter:
    - Look for hotels in Miami
    - Search for hotels in Seattle
    - Show me hotels in California 
    - Find hotels near *eze*
    - Where can I stay near *nnn*?
    - Show hotels near *att* airport
    - Find hotels near *agl*
22. In the list of utterances, click on the *italicized* words from step 21, and then click **AirportCode** to assign them to the entity.
23. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **ShowHotelsReviews**.
24. Add the following utterances to **ShowHotelsReviews** by typing them in the box and pressing Enter:
    - Show me the reviews of the *bot* resort
    - Can I see the extended reviews of *bot* hotel?
    - Find reviews of hotel *xya*
    - Show me reviews of the *amazing* hotel
25. In the list of utterances, click on the *italicized* words from step 24, and then click **Hotel** to assign them to the entity.
26. In the left-hand side menu, click **Phrase lists**, and then click **+ Create new phrase list**.
27. Name the phrase list **near**.
28. In the **Value** box, type **near**, and then press Enter.
29. Repeat step 28 for the following values, and then click **Save**:
    - around
    - close
    - nearby
30. Click **Create new phrase list**, and name the phrase list **show**.
31. Add the following values, and then click **Save**:
    - show
    - find
    - look
    - search
32. In the menu bar, click **Train**.
33. When training is complete, in the menu bar, click **Test**.
34. Type the utterance **Are there Hotels near SFO?** and then press Enter. LUIS will recognize that sentence as having the intent of **SearchHotels** with a high confidence.
35. In the menu bar, click **Publish**.
36. Accept the default settings, and then click **Publish** to publish the LUIS app.

#### Task 2: Install and configure Internet Information Services

1. Right-click the Start menu, and then click **Control Panel**.
2. In the Control Panel, click **Programs**.
3. Under **Programs and Features**, click **Turn Windows features on or off**.
4. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select **Internet Information Services**.
5. Expand **Internet Information Services**, expand **World Wide Web Services**, expand **Application Development Features**, select **.NET Extensibility 4.6** and **ASP.NET 4.6** (this will cause other options to be selected as well), and then click **OK**.
6. Wait while IIS is installed, click **Close**, and then close Control Panel.

#### Task 3: Using LUIS with the bot framework

1. Using Internet Explorer, browse to **https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/debug-bots-emulator**.
2. Click **Download the Bot Framework Emulator**, and then click the **GitHub releases page** link.
3. On the **Microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator** page in GitHub, click the **botframework-emulator-Setup-*n.n.n*.exe** link (the version number, *n.n.n*, will vary over time as new releases occur)
4. In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Run**.
5. If the **Window Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Allow access**.
6. Start **Visual Studio 2015** as **administrator** and open **LuisBot.sln** from the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex1\\intelligence-LUIS** folder.
7. If the **Security Warning for LuisBot** dialog box appears, clear the **Ask me for every project in this solution** check box, and then click **OK**. 
8. In Solution Explorer, expand **LuisBot**, expand **Dialogs**, and then double-click **RootLuisDialog.cs**.
9. In the **LuisModel** attribute of the **LuisDialog** class, replace the existing values with your own **Application ID** and **Authoring Key**.
    - The **Application ID** can be found on the **Application Information** page, under the **MANAGE** heading for your LUIS app.
    - The **Authoring Key** can be found on the **Keys and Endpoint** page, under the **MANAGE** heading for your LUIS app.
10. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **LuisBot** project and then click **Properties**.
11. In the **LuisBot** properties editor, click the **Web** tab.
12. In the **Servers** section, in the drop-down list box, select **Local IIS**.
13. In the **Project Url** box, enter **http://localhost/LuisBot**, and then click **Create Virtual Directory**.
14. In the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box, click **OK**.
15. Press F5 to start the solution, and wait for the browser window to open.
16. In the **Bot Framework Emulator**, in the **Enter your endpoint URL** box, type **http://localhost/LuisBot/api/messages** and then press Enter.
17. In the **Type your message** box, type **hello** to begin communicating with LUIS.
18. Try typing queries like **Where can I stay near ATL** or **Show hotels**.
19. In Internet Explorer, on the **LUIS** tab, select your model, and then click **BUILD**.
20. In the left-hand side menu, click **Review endpoint utterances**. Here you will see each of the sentences you submitted, together with the response generated by LUIS and the confidence in the accurancy of that response.
21. Close the Bot Framework Emulator.
22. In Visual Studio 2015, on the **Debug** menu, click **Stop Debugging**.
23. Close Microsoft Edge.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have created a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography.

### Exercise 2: Build a face detection application

#### Task 1: Use the Face API in a Visual Studio application

1. In Internet Explorer, open a new tab, navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. If prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
3. Click **+ Create a resource**, click **AI + Machine Learning**, and then click **Face**.
4. Create a new Face account with the following parameters:
    - **Name**: &lt;yourname&gt;-CS1  
    - **Subscription**: &lt;your classroom subscription&gt;
    - **Location**: &lt;your nearest location&gt;
    - **Pricing Tier**: S0 (10 Calls per second)
    - **Resource group (Create new)**: &lt;yourname&gt;-CS1RG
5. In Visual Studio 2015, on the **File** menu, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.
6. In the **New Project** dialog box, click **Visual C\#**, and then click **WPF Application**.
7. Name the application **FaceAnalyzer**, ensure the **Create directory for solution** check box is selected, name the solution **FaceAnalyzer.sln**, and then click **OK**.
8.  On the **MainWindow.xaml** tab, replace the existing code with code **Snippet 1** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** to create the window UI.
9.  In Solution Explorer, expand **MainWindow.xaml**, and then double-click **MainWindow.xaml.cs**
10. Insert code **Snippet 2** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** inside the **MainWindow** class, under the **MainWindow()** constructor, as shown below:
    ```
    namespace FaceAnalyzer
    {
        /// <summary>
        /// Interaction logic for MainWindow.xaml
        /// </summary>
        public partial class MainWindow : Window
        {
            public MainWindow()
            {
                InitializeComponent();
            }

            // insert code below

            private void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
            {
                var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();
                openDlg.Filter = "JPEG Image(*.jpg)|*.jpg";
                bool? result = openDlg.ShowDialog(this);
                if (!(bool)result)
                {
                    return;
                } 
                string filePath = openDlg.FileName;
                Uri fileUri = new Uri(filePath);
                BitmapImage bitmapSource = new BitmapImage();
                bitmapSource.BeginInit();
                bitmapSource.CacheOption = BitmapCacheOption.None;
                bitmapSource.UriSource = fileUri;
                bitmapSource.EndInit();
                FacePhoto.Source = bitmapSource;
            }
        }
    }
    ```
11. Press F5 to start the solution.
12. Click **Browse**, and upload the image **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2** folder to see it displayed.
13. Close the application, but leave Visual Studio open.

#### Task 2: Add face detection to an application

1. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **FaceAnalyzer** project, and then click **Manage NuGet Packages**.
2. In the **NuGet Package Manager** window, select **nuget.org** as your **Package** source, click **Browse**, and then search for the package **Microsoft.ProjectOxford.Face**.
3. Select the **Microsoft.ProjectOxford.Face** package, and then click **Install**.
4. In the **Preview Changes** dialog box, click **OK**.
5. In the **License Acceptance** dialog box, click **I Accept**.
6. Open **MainWindow.xaml.cs**, add the code **Snippet 3** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** using directives to the beginning of the file.
7. Insert code **Snippet 4** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** to the **MainWindow** class, directly above the **MainWindow** constructor, as shown below:
    ```
    public partial class MainWindow : Window
    {
        //Replace the word key with your Face API subscription key.
        private readonly IFaceServiceClient faceServiceClient = new FaceServiceClient("key");
        
        public MainWindow()
        {
            InitializeComponent();
        }
    ```

8. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, click **All resources**, click your Cognitive Services account, click **Overview**, and make a note of the **Endpoint** URL of your service.
9. Under **RESOURCE MANAGEMENT**, click **Keys**, and then make a note of the value shown for **KEY 1**.
10. Return to Visual Studio showing the MainWindow.xaml.cs file.
11. Change the **key** value the statement you just added as follows:
    - Replace **&lt;KEY 1&gt;** with the value of your access key.
    - Replace **&lt;Endpoint&gt;** with the endpoint URL of your service.
     ```
        private readonly IFaceServiceClient faceServiceClient = new FaceServiceClient("<KEY 1>", "<Endpoint>");
    ```
12. Insert the code **Snippet 5** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** into the **MainWindow** class, directly after the **BrowseButton\_Click** method.
13. Add the **async** modifier to the **BrowseButton\_Click** function:
    ```
    private async void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
    {
        var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();  
        ...
    ```
14. Add the code **Snippet 7** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\Code snippets.txt** to the end of the **BrowseButton\_Click**, as shown below:
    ```
    private async void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
    {
        var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();

        openDlg.Filter = "JPEG Image(*.jpg)|*.jpg";
        bool? result = openDlg.ShowDialog(this);

        if (!(bool)result)
        {
            return;
        }

        string filePath = openDlg.FileName;

        Uri fileUri = new Uri(filePath);
        BitmapImage bitmapSource = new BitmapImage();

        bitmapSource.BeginInit();
        bitmapSource.CacheOption = BitmapCacheOption.None;
        bitmapSource.UriSource = fileUri;
        bitmapSource.EndInit();

        FacePhoto.Source = bitmapSource;

        // Insert code from snippet 7 below

        Title = "Detecting...";
        FaceRectangle[] faceRects = await UploadAndDetectFaces(filePath);

        Title = String.Format("Detection Finished. {0} face(s) detected", faceRects.Length);
        if (faceRects.Length > 0)
        {
            DrawingVisual visual = new DrawingVisual();
            DrawingContext drawingContext = visual.RenderOpen();
            drawingContext.DrawImage(bitmapSource,
                new Rect(0, 0, bitmapSource.Width, bitmapSource.Height));
            double dpi = bitmapSource.DpiX;
            double resizeFactor = 96 / dpi;
            foreach (var faceRect in faceRects)
            {
                drawingContext.DrawRectangle(
                    Brushes.Transparent,
                    new Pen(Brushes.Red, 2),
                    new Rect(
                        faceRect.Left * resizeFactor,
                        faceRect.Top * resizeFactor,
                        faceRect.Width * resizeFactor,
                        faceRect.Height * resizeFactor
                        )
                );
            }
            drawingContext.Close();
            RenderTargetBitmap faceWithRectBitmap = new RenderTargetBitmap(
                (int)(bitmapSource.PixelWidth * resizeFactor),
                (int)(bitmapSource.PixelHeight * resizeFactor),
                96,
                96,
                PixelFormats.Pbgra32);
            faceWithRectBitmap.Render(visual);
            FacePhoto.Source = faceWithRectBitmap;
        }
    }
    ```
15. Press F5 to run the solution.
16. Test the application using the files **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg**, **MSC13\_Louis\_04.jpg**, and **OFC16\_Meeting\_002.jpg** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2** folder.
17. Close the application when you have finished, and then close Visual Studio 2015

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have created a face detection application, using the Face API.

---

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
