# Module 10: Using Azure Machine Learning Models

- [Module 10: Using Azure Machine Learning Models](#module-10-using-azure-machine-learning-models)
    - [Demo 1: Deploying and publishing experiments](#demo-1-deploying-and-publishing-experiments)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Create a new standard Machine Learning Workspace](#create-a-new-standard-machine-learning-workspace)
        - [Open a sample experiment](#open-a-sample-experiment)
        - [Publish the experiment as a web service](#publish-the-experiment-as-a-web-service)
        - [Add export path as a web service parameter](#add-export-path-as-a-web-service-parameter)
        - [Deploy the web service](#deploy-the-web-service)
    - [Demo 2: Consuming Machine Learning experiments](#demo-2-consuming-machine-learning-experiments)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Use the API testing console to send test requests to an experiment](#use-the-api-testing-console-to-send-test-requests-to-an-experiment)
        - [View the test results](#view-the-test-results)

## Demo 1: Deploying and publishing experiments

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Create a new standard Machine Learning Workspace.
-	Open a sample experiment.
-	Publish the experiment as a web service.
-	Add export path as a web service parameter.
-	Deploy the web service.

### Create a new standard Machine Learning Workspace

1.	On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, in Microsoft Internet Explorer®, in the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
2.	In the Azure Portal, click **+ New**, click **Data + Analytics**, click **See all**, click **Machine Learning Workspace**, and then click **Create**.
3.	Enter the following workspace information:
    -	Workspace name: **\<your name\>-workspace**
    -	Subscription: **Azure Pass**
    -	Resource group: (create new) **workspacerg**
    -	Location: choose the nearest location
    -	Storage account: (create new) accept default **\<unique\>**
    -	Workspace pricing tier: **Standard**
    -	Web service plan: (create new) accept default
4.	Click web service plan pricing tier, click **DevTest Standard**, and then click **Select**.
5.	Click **Create**.
6.	Wait until the workspace has been deployed.

### Open a sample experiment

1.	Click **All resources**, and then click the workspace.
2.	Click **Launch Machine Learning Studio**.
3.	Click **Sign In**.
4.	In Machine Learning Studio, click **+ NEW**, then in the search box, type **sample**, and then click **Sample 6: Train, Test, Evaluate for Regression: Auto Imports Dataset**, and then click **OPEN IN STUDIO**.
5.	This sample takes raw automobile details and attempts to predict the price of an automobile. It trains two machine learning models, **Poisson Regression** and **Decision Forest Regression**, and compares the results. 
6.	Point out the key features in the model; use the descriptions given for the main modules to help you with this.
7.	Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.

### Publish the experiment as a web service

1.	When the experiment has finished running, click the **Train Model** module for **Decision Forest Regression**, at the bottom of the page click **SET UP WEB SERVICE**, and then click **Predictive Web Service (Recommended)**.
2.	In the predictive experiment, connect the **Web service input** module to the right-hand input port of the **Score Model** module.
3.	In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Export**, and then from the module list, drag **Export Data** on to the experiment canvas, below the **Score Model** module.
4.	Connect the **Score Model** output to the **Export Data** module.

### Add export path as a web service parameter

1.	Switch to the Azure Portal, and on the **Overview** page for your workspace, click the storage account.
2.	Under **SETTINGS**, click **Access keys**, and click the **Click to copy** icon for **key1**.
3.	Switch to Machine Learning Studio, and click the **Export Data module**.
4.	In the **Properties** pane, enter the following information:
    -	Azure account name: **\<your storage account\>**
    -	Azure account key: **paste key1**
    -	Path to Blob beginning with container: **container1/output1.csv**
5.	Above the path to Blob beginning, on the hamburger menu, click **Set as Web Service Parameter**.
6.	The web service parameter is now listed at the bottom of the properties box; click the web service parameter, and then change its name to **blobpath**. 
7.	At the bottom of the page, click **RUN** to run the predictive experiment.

### Deploy the web service

1.	When the experiment has finished running, at the bottom of the page click **DEPLOY WEB SERVICE**, and then select **New Web Services Experience Preview**.
2.	If you get a pop-up dialog box, click **Allow**.
3.	On the **Web Services Management** page, if you get an option to select a price plan, in the **Price Plan** list, select your price plan, and then click **Deploy**.
4.	Leave this service running and continue to the next lesson.

## Demo 2: Consuming Machine Learning experiments

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Use the API testing console to send test requests to an experiment.
-	View the test results.

### Use the API testing console to send test requests to an experiment

1.	On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are in Machine Learning Studio.
2.	In the left-pane, click **WEB SERVICES**.
3.	In the web services list, click **Sample 6: Train, Test, Evaluate for Regression: Auto Imports Dataset (Predictive Exp.)**.
4.	In the **REQUEST/RESPONSE** row, click the second **Test** link.
5.	On the **Machine Learning Web Services** page, input the following values into the input area:
    -	symbolling: 3
    -	normalized-losses: 147
    -	make: alfa-romero
    -	fuel-type: gas
    -	aspiration: std
    -	body-style: convertible
    -	drive-wheels: rwd
    -	engine-location: front
    -	wheel-base: 88.6
    -	length: 168.8
    -	width: 64.1
    -	height: 48.8
    -	curb-weight: 2548
    -	engine-type: dohc
    -	num-of-cylinders: four
    -	engine-size: 130
    -	fuel-system: mpfi
    -	bore: 3.47
    -	stroke: 2.68
    -	compression-ratio: 9
    -	horsepower: 111
    -	peak-rpm: 5000
    -	city-mpg: 21
    -	highway-mpg: 27
    -	price: 123
    -	Blobpath: container1/blob123

### View the test results

1.	Click **Test Request-Response**.
2.	The **Scored Label Mean** and Sc**ored Label Standard Deviation** columns will be returned in the output pane.
3.	In Internet Explorer, switch to the Azure Portal.
4.	Click **All resources**.
5.	Click the storage account associated with your Machine Learning workspace.
6.	Under **BLOB SERVICE**, click **Containers**.
7.	Click **container1**, then click **blob 123**, and then click **Download**.
8.	The data for **blob 123** will open in a new page; point out that it has stored the features along with the predicted values.
9.	Close the blob data tab.

>**Note:** The source data refers to “alfa romero”, which is why this value is used in the demo.


---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.