# Module 5: Using Feature Engineering and Selection in Azure Machine Learning

## Lab: using feature engineering and selection

### Exercise 1: Prepare datasets ready for merging

#### Task 1: Prepare transaction dataset

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2. On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3. In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
4. In the Azure Portal, in the **Navigation** pane, click **All resources**, and then click **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
5. On the **Overview** blade, click **Query editor (preview)**.
6. On the **Query editor (preview)** blade, enter the following details, and then click **OK**:
    - **Authorization type**: SQL server authentication
    - **Login**: dbadmin
    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd
7. Click in line 1, type the following command, and then click **Run**:
    ```
    IF EXISTS (SELECT * FROM sys.views WHERE name = '20774A.CustomerTransactions')
        DROP VIEW [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
    GO
    IF OBJECT_ID('[20774A].[CustomerTransactions]', 'V') IS NOT NULL
        DROP VIEW [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
    GO
    CREATE VIEW [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
    AS
    SELECT customers.CustomerName,
        CAST( [TransactionAmount] AS REAL) AS TransactionAmount,
        CAST([OutstandingBalance] AS REAL) AS OutstandingBalance,
        CAST([TaxAmount] AS REAL) AS TaxAmount,
        CONCAT(
        (LEFT([TransactionDate],4)),RIGHT(LEFT([TransactionDate],7),2),RIGHT(LEFT([TransactionDate],10),2)
        ) AS PKIDDate
        ,[TransactionDate]
    FROM [Sales].[Customers] AS customers
    LEFT OUTER JOIN
        [Sales].[CustomerTransactions] AS customertransactions
        ON customers.CustomerID = customertransactions.CustomerID;
    ```
    >**Note:** The above command can be copied from: **E:\Labfiles\Lab05\SqlViewCmd.txt**.

#### Task 2: Prepare date dataset

1. In Internet Explorer, click **+** to create a new tab.
2. In the address bar, type **<https://studio.azureml.net/>**.
3. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
4. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
5. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, ensure that **DATASETS** is selected in the navigation pane, then click **+ New**.
6. Click **FROM LOCAL FILE**.
7. In the **Upload a new dataset** dialog box, click **Browse**.
8. In the **Choose file to upload** dialog box, navigate to **E:\Labfiles\Lab05**, and click **DimDate3.csv**, and then click **Open**.
9. In the **ENTER A NAME FOR THE NEW DATASET** box, type **DateHolidayPromo**.
10. In the **SELECT A TYPE FOR THE NEW DATASET** list, select **Generic CSV File with a header (.csv)**, and then click **Ok** (tick).

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have uploaded two datasets to Machine Learning Studio, ready for merging.

### Exercise 2: Use Join to create new merged dataset

#### Task 1: Join transaction and date datasets

1. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, click **EXPERIMENTS**, then click **MY EXPERIMENTS**, and then click **Process Data in Azure ML**.
2. Click **SAVE AS** at the bottom of the page.
3. In the **EXPERIMENT NAME** box, type **Shape Data in Azure ML**, and click **Ok** (tick).
4. Click on the **Import Data** module.
5. In the right-hand **Properties** pane, clear the **Use cached results** check box.
6. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Date**, and then from the module list, drag **DateHolidayPromo** on to the left side of the experiment canvas, to the left of the **Import Data** module.
7. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Summarize**, and then from the module list, drag **Summarize Data** on to the left-hand side of the experiment canvas, and below **DateHolidayPromo**.
8. Connect the output port of **DateHolidayPromo** to the input port of **Summarize Data**.
9. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
10. When the experiment has finished running, click the output port of the **Summarize Data** module that you just added, and then click **Visualize**.
11. Note that there are **18** rows (features) in this dataset.
12. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
13. Click the output port of the **Summarize Data** module below **Import Data**, and then click **Visualize**.
14. Note that there are **6** rows (features) in this dataset.
15. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
16. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Join**, and then from the module list, drag **Join Data** on to the experiment canvas, between and below **DateHolidayPromo** and **Import Data**.
17. Connect the output port of **DateHolidayPromo** to the left-hand input port of **Join Data**.
18. Connect the output port of **Import Data** to the right-hand input port of **Join Data**.
19. Click the **Join Data** module, and in the **Properties** pane, under **Join key columns for L**, click **Launch column selector**.
20. In the **Select columns** dialog box, under **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, click **PKIDDate**, and then click the right arrow.
21. Click the check mark (tick).
22. In the **Properties** pane, under **Join key columns for R**, click **Launch column selector**.
23. In the **Select columns** dialog box, under **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, click **PKIDDate**, and then click the right arrow.
24. Click the check mark (tick).
25. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Summarize**, and then from the module list, drag **Summarize Data** on to the experiment canvas, below **Join Data**.
26. Connect the output port of the **Join Data** module to the input port of **Summarize Data**.
27. Click on the **Import Data** module.
28. In the right-hand **Properties** pane, select the **Use cached results** check box.
29. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
30. When the experiment has finished running, click the output port of the **Summarize Data** module that you just added, and then click **Visualize**.
31. Note that there are now **24** rows (features) in the joined data, and that the columns from both source tables are listed in the **Feature** column.
32. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
33. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

#### Task 2: Save a merged dataset to Azure SQL Database

1. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in the **Search experiment items** box, type **Export**, and then from the module list, drag **Export Data** on to the experiment canvas, below **Join Data**.
2. Connect the output port of the **Join Data** module to the input port of **Export Data**.
3. Click the **Export Data** module, and in the **Properties** pane, in the **Please specify data destination** list, select **Azure SQL Database**.
4. In the **Database server name** box, type the following (replacing ***&lt;your db servername&gt;*** with the name of your database server from Lab 3):
   ```
   <your db servername>.database.windows.net
   ```
5. In the **Database** name box, type **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
6. In the **Server user account** **name** box, type **dbadmin**.
7. In the **Server user account** **password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.
8. In the **Comma separated list of columns to be saved** box, type:
   ```
   CustomerName, TransactionAmount, OutstandingBalance, TaxAmount, TransactionDate, Season, Holiday, Promo, PKIDDate
   ```
   >**Note:** The above list can be copied from: **E:\Labfiles\Lab05\Columns.txt**.
9.  In the **Data** **table** **name** box, type **ShapeExport**.
10. In the **Comma separated list of datatable columns** box, type:
    ```
    CustomerName, TransactionAmount, OutstandingBalance, TaxAmount, TransactionDate, Season, Holiday, Promo, PKIDDate
    ```

    >**Note:** The above list can be copied from: **E:\Labfiles\Lab05\Columns.txt**.
   
11. Note that the **Comma separated list of datatable columns** box is for names of the columns as you wish them to appear in the destination table, but for this exercise you will use the same names as in the source data.
12. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
13. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

#### Task 3: Confirm data export

1. Switch to the Azure Portal tab.
2. In the Azure Portal, on the **Query editor (preview)** blade, click **+ New Query**.
3. Click in line 1, type the following command, and then click **Run**:
    ```
    SELECT * FROM ShapeExport
    ```
4. Verify that the **ShapeExport** table contains data that has features from both source datasets.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have used Machine Learning Studio to join two datasets using a common key, saved the merged data to a new dataset location, and confirmed that the export was successful.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
