# Module 2: Introduction to Azure Machine Learning

- [Module 2: Introduction to Azure Machine Learning](#module-2-introduction-to-azure-machine-learning)
    - [Demo 1: Using two-class classification in a machine learning model](#demo-1-using-two-class-classification-in-a-machine-learning-model)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Sign into your Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio account](#sign-into-your-microsoft-azure-machine-learning-studio-account)
        - [Clone a sample experiment](#clone-a-sample-experiment)
        - [View the modules in the experiment](#view-the-modules-in-the-experiment)

## Demo 1: Using two-class classification in a machine learning model

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
    - Sign into a Machine Learning Studio account.
    - Clone a sample experiment.
    - View the modules in an experiment.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

### Sign into your Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio account

1.	On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
2.	In Internet Explorer®, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**, and press **Enter**.
3.	On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
4.	Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription. 

### Clone a sample experiment

1.	In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
2.	On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
3.	In the list of samples, click **Recommender: Movie recommendation**.
4.	At the bottom of the workspace, click **SAVE AS**.
5.	In the **SAVE AS** dialog box, type **My Movie Recommender**, and then click **OK** (the tick).

### View the modules in the experiment

1.	Zoom in, so that the names of the modules are visible.
2.	Point out that **Movie Ratings** and **IMDB Movie Titles** are the datasets.
3.	Briefly explain the purpose of the following modules:
    -	Edit Metadata
    -	Join Data
    -	Select Columns in Dataset
    -	Remove Duplicate Rows
    -	Split Data
    -	Partition and Sample
    -	Train Matchbox Recommender
    -	Score Matchbox Recommender
    -	Evaluate Matchbox Recommender
4.	Close Internet Explorer.


---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.