# Module 7: Using Classification and Clustering with Azure Machine Learning Models

- [Module 7: Using Classification and Clustering with Azure Machine Learning Models](#module-7-using-classification-and-clustering-with-azure-machine-learning-models)
    - [Demo 1: Using Azure ML Studio modules for classification](#demo-1-using-azure-ml-studio-modules-for-classification)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Create a classification model](#create-a-classification-model)
    - [Demo 2: Using clustering in Azure ML Studio](#demo-2-using-clustering-in-azure-ml-studio)
        - [Scenario](#scenario-1)
        - [Use clustering in Azure Machine Learning Studio](#use-clustering-in-azure-machine-learning-studio)

## Demo 1: Using Azure ML Studio modules for classification

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Use Azure Machine Learning Studio to create a classification model.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

### Create a classification model

1.  On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, open **Internet Explorer** and browse to **https://studio.azureml.net**.
2.  On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign in here**.
3.  Sign in with your Microsoft account credentials to Machine Learning Studio.
4.  Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, and then click **+ NEW** to create an experiment.
5.  Click **Blank Experiment**.
6.  From the experiment items, expand **Saved Datasets**.
7.  Expand **Samples**, and then drag **Adult Census Income Binary Classification dataset** to the workspace near the top.
8.  From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**.
9.  Expand **Manipulation**, and then drag **Select Columns in Dataset** below the saved dataset on the workspace.
10. Drag the output from the saved dataset to the input on **Select Columns in Dataset**.
11. Click **Select Columns in Dataset** and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
12. In the **Select columns** dialog box, in the first column, click **WITH RULES**.
13. Under **Begin With**, click **ALL COLUMNS**.
14. In the first column, click **Exclude**.
15. In the second column, click **column names**.
16. Click in the third column, and click **fnlwgt**, **capital-gain**, and **capital-loss**.
17. Click the tick on the bottom right of the dialog box. 
18. From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**.
19. Expand **Sample and Split**, and then drag **Split Data** below the **Select columns in dataset** module on the workspace.
20. Select **Split data** module.
21. In **Properties**, change the **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** value to **0.75**.
22. Drag the output from the **Select columns in dataset** module to the **Split Data** module.
23. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Initialize Model**, and expand **Classification**.
24. Drag **Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree** to your workspace to the left of the **Split Data** module.
25. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning** and expand **Train**.
26. Drag **Train Model** to your workspace beneath **Split Data**.
27. Drag the first result dataset from **Split Data** to the right-hand input for **Train Model**.
28. Drag the output from **Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree** to the left-hand input for **Train Model**.
29. Select the **Train Model** module and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
30. In the **Select a single column** dialog box, click **Press enter to enter a column name** and select or type **income**.
31. Click the tick on the bottom-right of the dialog box.
32. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning** and expand **Score**.
33. Drag **Score Model** to your workspace beneath **Train Model**.
34. Drag the output from **Train Model** to the left-hand input of **Score Model**.
35. Drag the right-hand output of **Split Data** to the right-hand input of **Score Model**.
36. Right-click **Score Model**, and click **Run selected**.
37. When the model run has completed, right-click **Score Model**, point to **Scored dataset**, and click **Visualize**.
38. Click **age** and note that the chances of having a high salary increase with age up to a point and then dramatically decrease.
39. Close the visualization by clicking the x at the top-right of the window.
40. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Evaluate**, and drag **Evaluate Model** to the workspace beneath **Score Model**.
41. Drag the output from **Score Model** to the left-hand input of **Evaluate Model**.
42. Right-click **Evaluate Model** and click **Run selected**.
43. When the model run has completed, right-click **Evaluate Model**, point to **Evaluation results**, and click **Visualize**.
44. Note the true and false positives and negatives.
45. Close the visualization by clicking the x at the top-right of the window.

## Demo 2: Using clustering in Azure ML Studio

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-   Use clustering in Azure Machine Learning Studio

### Use clustering in Azure Machine Learning Studio

1.  On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, open **Internet Explorer** and browse to **https://studio.azureml.net**.
2.  On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign in here**.
3.  Sign in with your Microsoft account credentials to Machine Learning Studio.
4.  Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, and then click **+ NEW** to create an experiment.
5.  Click **Blank Experiment**.
6.  From the experiment items, expand **Saved Datasets**.
7.  Expand **Samples**, and drag the **Forest fires data** dataset to the workspace near the top.
8.  From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**, expand **Manipulation**, and drag **Select Columns in Dataset** beneath **Forest fires data**.
9.  Drag the output from **Forest fires data** to the input for **Select Columns in Dataset**.
10. Click **Select Columns in Dataset**.
11. In **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
12. In the **Select columns** dialog box, in **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, select **temp** and click the button to add this to **SELECTED COLUMNS**.
13. Repeat step 12 for **RH**, **wind**, **rain**, and **month**.
14. Click the tick to confirm the selected columns.
15. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Initialize Model**, expand **Clustering**, and drag **K-Means Clustering** to the workspace adjacent to **Select Columns in Dataset**.
16. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Train**, and drag **Train Clustering Model** to the workspace beneath **Select Columns in Dataset**.
17. Drag the output from **K-Means Clustering** to the left input of **Train Clustering Model**.
18. Drag the output of **Select Columns in Dataset** to the right input of **Train Clustering Model**.
19. Click **Train Clustering Model**, and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
20. In the **Select columns** dialog box, click **temp**, **RH**, **wind**, **rain**, **month**.
21. Click the tick to confirm the selected columns.
22. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Score**, and drag **Assign Data to Clusters** beneath **Train Clustering Model**.
23. Drag the left-hand output from **Train Clustering Model** to the left-hand input for **Assign Data to Clusters**.
24. Drag the right-hand output from **Train Clustering Model** to the right-hand input for **Assign Data to Clusters**.
25. Right-click **Assign Data to Clusters**, and click **Run selected**.
26. When the model has been run, from the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**, expand **Manipulation**, and drag **Select Columns in Dataset** beneath **Assign Data to Clusters**.
27. Drag the output from **Assign Data to Clusters** to the input for the lower **Select Columns in Dataset**.
28. Click the lower **Select Columns in Dataset** module and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
29. In the **Select columns** dialog box, click **Assignments** and click the arrow to add it to **SELECTED COLUMNS**.
30. Repeat Step 29 for **month** and **rain**.
31. Click the tick to confirm the selected columns.
32. Right-click the lower **Select Columns in Dataset**, and click **Run selected**.
33. When the model has run, right-click the lower **Select Columns in Dataset**, point to **Results dataset**, and click **Visualize**.
34. Click the **month** column and, in **Visualizations**, change **compare to** to **Assignments**. 
35. Note that both groups increase in **August** and **September**, but to different degrees.
36. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
