# Module 13: Using R services with Machine Learning

- [Module 13: Using R services with Machine Learning](#module-13-using-r-services-with-machine-learning)
    - [Demo 1: Executing remote commands](#demo-1-executing-remote-commands)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Enable remote access to R Server](#enable-remote-access-to-r-server)
        - [Use R Client to execute R commands in a remote session](#use-r-client-to-execute-r-commands-in-a-remote-session)
    - [Demo 2: Creating R graphics from R Server](#demo-2-creating-r-graphics-from-r-server)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Create a stored procedure to run R code and extract useful data](#create-a-stored-procedure-to-run-r-code-and-extract-useful-data)
        - [Create a stored procedure to run R code and plot extracted data](#create-a-stored-procedure-to-run-r-code-and-plot-extracted-data)
        - [Use Windows PowerShell to deploy a stored procedure and create a graphic from data](#use-windows-powershell-to-deploy-a-stored-procedure-and-create-a-graphic-from-data)

## Demo 1: Executing remote commands

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to: 
-	Enable remote access to R Server.
-	Use R Client to execute R commands in a remote session.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

Note that the Data Science virtual machine incurs costs, so you should check that your Azure Pass still has sufficient credits. The exercise specifies the A2 Standard size; this is because a lack of RAM can cause the database restore to fail.

**Deploy the Data Science virtual machine**
1.	On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, sign into the **Azure Portal**, and then in the left pane, click **+ NEW**.
2.	Click **Compute**, and then click **See all**.
3.	In the images list, click **Data Science Virtual Machine for Windows**, and then click **Create**. 
4.	On the **Basics** blade, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:
    -	Name: **dsvm\<date\>** (this name cannot be longer than 15 characters)
    -	Virtual machine disk type: **HDD**
    -	User name: **dsadmin**
    -	Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -	Confirm password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -	Subscription: **Azure Pass**
    -	Resource group: (Create new) **dsvmrg** 
    -	Location: **Your location**
5.	On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**, click **A2 Standard**, and then click **Select**.
6.	On the **Settings** blade, leave all settings at their defaults, and then click **OK**.
7.	On the **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
8.	On the **Purchase** blade, select the permission check box, and then click **Purchase**.
9.	Wait until the deployment has successfully completed before continuing with this exercise.

**Configure R Server**
1.	After the Data Science virtual machine has been deployed, the **Overview** blade should be displayed in the Azure Portal. If you do not see this blade, click **All resources**, and then click your Data Science virtual machine.
2.	On the **Overview** blade, click **Connect**, and then in the dialog box, click **Open**.
3.	In the dialog box, click **OK**.
4.	In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Connect**.
5.	In the **Windows Security** dialog box, click **More choices**, and then click **Use a different account**.
6.	Enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:
    -	User name: **dsadmin**
    -	Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
7.	In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Yes**.
8.	On the Data Science virtual machine, on the desktop, double-click **Microsoft-R-Admin-Util**.
9.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **1**, and then press Enter to select **Configure R Server for Operationalization**.
10.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **A**, and then press Enter to select **One-box (web + compute nodes)**.
11.	In the Administrator Utility command window, at the **Set the admin password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press **Enter**.
12.	In the Administrator Utility command window, at the **Confirm this password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press **Enter**.
13.	The configuration process may take several minutes to complete.
14.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **E**, and then press Enter to select **Return to main menu**.
15.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **6**, and then press Enter to select **Run Diagnostic Tests**.
16.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **A**, and then press Enter to select **Test configuration**.
17.	In the Administrator Utility command window, at the **Username:** prompt, type **admin**, and then press **Enter**.
18.	In the Administrator Utility command window, at the **Password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press **Enter**.
19.	Confirm that Overall Health = **pass**.
20.	In the Administrator Utility command window, type **E**, and then press Enter to select **Return to main menu**.
21. In the Administrator Utility command window, type **8**, and then press Enter to exit.

### Enable remote access to R Server

1.	Explain that R Server is running on the Data Science virtual machine and listening on port 12800, so you need to configure the virtual machine to accept inbound requests on this port.
2.	In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click the network security group associated with the Data Science virtual machine; it will be named **dsvm\<date\>-nsg**.
3.	On the named **dsvm\<date\>-nsg** blade, click **Inbound security rules**.
4.	Click **+ Add**.
5.	Enter the following information, and then click **OK**:
    -	Name: **Rserver**
    -	Priority: **\<default\>**
    -	Source: **Any**
    -	Service: **Custom**
    -	Protocol: **TCP**
    -	Port range: **12800**
    -	Action: **Allow**
6.	In the **Azure Portal**, click **All resources**, and then click the **Data Science virtual machine**.
7.	On the **Overview** page, make a note of the value for **Public IP address**.
8.	Minimize Microsoft Internet Explorer®.
9.	On the Start menu, type **RGui**, and then press Enter.
10.	In the R console, type the following command (replacing <IP address> with the address of your Data Science virtual machine), and then press Enter.
    ```
    remoteLogin("<IP address>:12800", username = "admin", password = "Pa55w.rd", diff = TRUE, session = TRUE, commandline = TRUE)
    ```
11.	The above command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo1Cmds.txt**.
12.	If this command is successful, you will have connected to the remote instance of R Server.

### Use R Client to execute R commands in a remote session

1.	Explain that you will now demonstrate using R commands in a remote session by accessing the sample iris dataset, which contains petal and sepal measurements from three species of iris flowers.
2.	All of the following commands can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo1Cmds.txt**.
3.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    iris
    ```
    This shows the raw iris dataset.
4.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    iris$Petal.Width
    ```
    This shows only the petal width data.
5.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    data(iris)
    ```
    This loads the dataset.
6.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    head(iris)
    ```
    This shows the top results in the dataset.
7.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    summary(iris)
    ```
    This shows a summary of the dataset.
8.	In the R console, type the following commands, and then press Enter.
    ```
    library(scatterplot3d)
    scatterplot3d(iris[,1:3], color=as.integer(iris$Species)) 
    ```
    This shows the dataset as a scatter plot.
9.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    hist(iris$Petal.Width, breaks=20, col="green")
    ```
    This shows the data in a colored histogram.
10.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    plot(x=iris$Petal.Length, y=iris$Petal.Width, col=iris$Species)
    ```
    This plots the principal components in the dataset.
11.	In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
    exit
    ```
12.	Close the R console without saving any changes.

## Demo 2: Creating R graphics from R Server 

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-	Create a stored procedure to run R code and extract useful data.
-	Create a stored procedure to run R code and plot extracted data.
-	Use Windows PowerShell® to deploy a stored procedure and create a graphic from data.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

Ensure that you have completed the preparation steps for the previous demonstration.

**Configure the source database**

1.	On **20774A-LON-DEV**, on the taskbar, click **File Explorer**.
2.	In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\Demofiles\Mod13**, right-click **WideWorldImportersDW-Full.bak**, and then click **Copy**.
3.	Switch to the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) session on the Data Science virtual machine.
4.	On the Data Science virtual machine, on the taskbar, click **File Explorer**.
5.	In File Explorer, navigate to **D:\**, and then click **Paste**. Wait until the file has copied successfully before continuing.
6.	On the Data Science virtual machine, on the desktop, double-click **SQL Server Management Studio**.
7.	In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, click **Connect**.
8.	In Object Explorer, right-click **Databases**, and then click **Restore Database**.
9.	In the **Restore Database** dialog box, click **Device**, and then click the ellipsis (**…**).
10.	In the **Select backup devices** dialog box, click **Add**.
11.	In the **Locate Backup File** dialog box, navigate to **D:\, click WideWorldImportersDW-Full.bak**, and then click **OK**. 
12.	In the **Select backup devices** dialog box, click **OK**.
13.	In the **Restore Database dialog** box, in the **Select a page** section, click **Files**.
14.	Select the **Relocate all files to folder** check box, and then click **OK**.
15.	The restore will take several minutes to complete.
16. When it is finished, in the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **OK**.

### Create a stored procedure to run R code and extract useful data

1.	Explain that the first step is to create a stored procedure to run R code and extract useful data. In this example, the aim is to identify the amount of time taken to pick a product after it has been ordered.
2.	In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, ensure that **WideWorldImportersDW** is selected.
3.	Click **New Query**.
4.	Copy and paste the following code into the query.
    ```
    USE [WideWorldImportersDW];
    GO

    CREATE PROC get_pick_length 
    AS  
    BEGIN  
    EXEC   sp_execute_external_script  
        @language = N'R'  
        , @script = N'res <-quantile(InputDataSet$TimeToPick);
                    df <- data.frame(res);'  
        , @input_data_1 = N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
        WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'  
        , @output_data_1_name = N'df'
        WITH RESULT SETS (("TimeToPick" float not null));  
    END;  
    GO
    ```
5.	The above command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo2Cmds.txt**.
6.	Click **Execute**.
7.	Click **New Query**.
8.	Copy and paste the following code into the query.
    ```
    Exec get_pick_length
    ```
9.	Click **Execute**.
10.	View the results in the SQL Server Management Studio response window.

### Create a stored procedure to run R code and plot extracted data

1.	In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, ensure that **WideWorldImportersDW** is selected.
2.	Click **New Query**.
3.	Copy and paste the following code into the query.
    ```
    CREATE PROCEDURE [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]  
    AS  
    BEGIN  
    SET NOCOUNT ON;  
    DECLARE @query nvarchar(max) =  
    N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
    WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'  
    EXECUTE sp_execute_external_script @language = N'R',  
                                        @script = N'  
    image_file = tempfile();  
    jpeg(filename = image_file);  
    #Plot histogram  
    rxHistogram(~TimeToPick, 4data=InputDataSet, col=''lightblue'',   
    title = ''Time to Pick Histogram'', xlab =''Time to Pick'', ylab =''Counts'');  
    dev.off();  
    OutputDataSet <- data.frame(data=readBin(file(image_file, "rb"), what=raw(), n=1e6));  
    ',  
    @input_data_1 = @query  
    WITH RESULT SETS ((plot varbinary(max)));  
    END  
    GO
    ```
4.	The above command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo2Cmds.txt**.
5.	Click **Execute**.
6.	Click **New Query**.
7.	Copy and paste the following code into the query.
    ```
    EXEC [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]
    ```
8.	The above command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo2Cmds.txt**.
9.	Click **Execute**.

### Use Windows PowerShell to deploy a stored procedure and create a graphic from data

1.	On the taskbar, click **Windows PowerShell**.
2.	At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command (replacing **\<server\>** with the name of your Data Science virtual machine, such as **dsvm\<date\>**), and then press Enter.
    ```
    bcp "exec TimetoPickHistogram" queryout "plot.jpg" -S <server> -d  WideWorldImportersDW  -T
    ```
3.	The above command can be copied from **E:\Demofiles\Mod13\Demo2Cmds.txt**.
4.	After the command executes, press Enter at each prompt to accept the defaults, except for this change: 
    -	prefix-length of field plot: **0** 
5.	Save the format information, using a suitable name.
6.	On the taskbar, click **File Explorer**, and then navigate to **C:\Users\dsadmin**.
7.	Double-click **plot.jpg**, and then show the output.


---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.