# Module 4: Preparing Data for use with Azure Machine Learning

- [Module 4: Preparing Data for use with Azure Machine Learning](#module-4-preparing-data-for-use-with-azure-machine-learning)
    - [Demo 1: Preprocessing data using Machine Learning](#demo-1-preprocessing-data-using-machine-learning)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Use the Summarize module to identify issues with imported raw data](#use-the-summarize-module-to-identify-issues-with-imported-raw-data)
        - [Clean the import to remove rows with missing data](#clean-the-import-to-remove-rows-with-missing-data)
        - [Remove outliers from the imported data](#remove-outliers-from-the-imported-data)

## Demo 1: Preprocessing data using Machine Learning

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how to:
-  Use the Summarize module to identify issues with imported raw data.
-  Clean the import to remove rows with missing data.
-  Remove outliers from the imported data.


### Preparation

**IMPORTANT**. Recent changes to Azure SQL Database are incompatible with the version of SQL Server Management Studio and tools such as sqlpackage installed on the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine. Before commencing this exercise, login in to the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**, open the web browser, move to the URL **https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms**, and then download and install the latest general availability build of SQL Server Management Studio.

Before running this demo, you must complete the following steps:
1.  On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged on as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.
2.  In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal and sign in with your Azure account.
3.  Create a new SQL Database with the following settings:
    -  **Database name**: WideWorldImporters-Standard
    -  **Resource group (Create new)**: \<*yourname*\>rg
    -  **Select source**: Blank database
    -  **Server**:
        -  **Server name**: \<*yourname\>\<date*\>srv
        -  **Server admin login**: dbadmin
        -  **Password**: Pa55w.rd
        -  **Confirm password**: Pa55w.rd
        -  **Location**: your local region
    -  **Pricing tier**: Standard S0: 10 DTUs, 250 GB
4.  Wait for the successful deployment message.
5.  On the database blade, change the Firewall settings to add your current client IP address to the list of allowed IP addresses.
6.  Start a command prompt with administrative rights.
7.  Change to the **C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server\140\DAC\Bin** folder.
8.  Run the command in **E:\Labfiles\Lab03\SqlPackageCmd.txt**, replacing **\<your db servername\>** to the server name you created earlier (\<*yourname\>\<date*\>srv).
9.  The database can take 5-10 minutes to import, when the import completes successfully, close the command prompt.
10. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net/**.
11. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**. 
12. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
13. Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, then click **+ NEW**.
14. Click **Blank Experiment**.
15. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Import**, and then from the module list, drag **Import Data** on to the experiment canvas.
16. In the right-hand **Properties** pane, in the **Data source** list, select **Azure SQL Database**.
17. In the **Database server name** box, type the following (replacing **\<*yourname\>\<date*\>srv** with the name of your database server):
    ````
    <yourname><date>srv.database.windows.net
    ````
18. In the **Database name** box, type **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
19. In the **User name** box, type **dbadmin**.
20. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.
21. In the **Database query** box, type the following command to use a subset of the total data:
    ````SQL
    SELECT * From [Sales].[CustomerTransactions]
    ````
22. Select **Use cached results**.
23. Click **SAVE AS** at the bottom of the page.
24. In the **EXPERIMENT NAME** box, type **Preprocessing Demo**, and click **Ok** (tick).

### Use the Summarize module to identify issues with imported raw data

1.  In Machine Learning Studio, ensure that the **Preprocessing Demo** experiment is open.
2.  In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Summarize**, and then from the module list, drag **Summarize Data** on to the right-hand side of the experiment canvas.
3.  Connect the **Import Data** module to the input port of the **Summarize Data** module. 
4.  Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
5.  When the experiment has run successfully, right-click the output port of the **Summarize Data** module, and then click **Visualize**.
6.  Point out that the **Summarize Data** module has transposed the columns from the raw data into rows, and has generated summary statistics from the 97,547 rows in the original data; verify that there are now five rows and 23 columns.
7.  Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

### Clean the import to remove rows with missing data

1.  In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Clean**, and then from the module list, drag **Clean Missing Data** on to the experiment canvas.
2.  Connect the input port of the **Clean Missing Data** module to the output port of the **Import Data** module.
3.  Click the **Clean Missing Data** module, and in the **Properties** pane, under **Cleaning mode**, click **Remove entire row**.
4.  Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
5.  Click the left-hand output port of the **Clean Missing Data** module, and then click **Visualize**. 
6.  Point out that the dataset now contains five columns and 97,147 rows; all the rows that had missing data (400 rows) have been removed.
7.  Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

### Remove outliers from the imported data

1.  Right-click the output port of the **Summarize Data** module, and then click **Visualize**.
2.  Point out that the **OutstandingBalance** field shows a **Max** value of **$28,280**; for this demonstration, you are going to assume that any value over $25,000 is erroneous, because company policy forbids customers from owing more than this amount.
3.  Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
4.  In the **Search experiment** items box, type **Clip**, and then from the module list, drag **Clip Values** on to the experiment canvas.
5.  Connect the input port of the **Clip Values** module to the output port of the **Import Data** module.
6.  Click **Clip Values**, and in the **Properties** pane, click **Launch column selector**.
7.  In the **Select Columns** dialog box, change the **Include** option from column type to **column names**, and in the box, select **OutstandingBalance**, then click the **tick**.
8.  In the Properties pane, set the following values:
    -  Set of thresholds: **ClipPeaks**
    -  Upper threshold: **Constant**
    -  Constant value for upper threshold: **25000**
    -  Upper substitute value: **Mean**
9.  Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
10. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.
11. When the experiment has run successfully, right-click the output port of the **Clip Values** module, and then click **Visualize**.
12. Click the **OutstandingBalance** column.
13. Point out that, in the **Statistics** pane, **OutstandingBalance** now ranges from 0 to 25000, so all values above 25000 have been replaced, based on the mean of the dataset.
14. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
