# Module 1: Introduction to Machine Learning

## Lab: Introduction to machine learning

## Exercise 1: Sign up for a Machine Learning Studio account

#### Task 1: Create a new Microsoft account (if you have not already completed this step)

1. Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type [**https://signup.live.com**](https://signup.live.com), and then press Enter.
4. On the **Create account** page, type a username that is not currently in use, such as **Course20774a-&lt;*date*&gt;-&lt;*your name*&gt;@outlook.com**, and then click **Next**.
5. On the **Create account** page, verify the details are correct, and then click **Next**. 
6. On the **Create a password** page, enter a suitable password containing eight or more characters. Make a note of this password.
7. Ensure the **Send me promotional offers from Microsoft** option is cleared, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Create account** page, enter your **First name**, and **Surname**, and then click **Next**.
9. On the **Add details** page, in the **Country/region** list box, select your local region.
10. Enter a **Date of birth**, and then click **Next**.
11. On the **Create account** page, in the **Enter the characters you see** box, type in the letters and numbers displayed, and then click **Next**. Click **New** for a different combination if required.
12. On the **Add security info** page, in the **Country code** list box, select the country code for your mobile phone.
13. In the **Phone number** box, enter the number of your mobile phone, and then click **Send code**.
14. In the **Enter the access code** box, enter the number received, and then click **Next**.
15. In the **Gender** list box, select your gender.
16. Confirm that the account has been created; you should be taken to the account page for your new account.

#### Task 2: Activate an Azure Learning Pass (if you have not already completed this step)

1. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type [**http://www.microsoftazurepass.com/learning**](http://www.microsoftazurepass.com/learning), and then press Enter.
2. In the **Please Select Country** list box, select your country.
3. In the text box, enter your **Azure Pass Promo Code**, and then click **Submit**.
4. On the next page, click **Sign in**.
5. Enter the **First Name**, **Last Name**, and **Organizational account**, using the details of the Microsoft account that you created previously, and then click **Submit**.
6. On the **Azure Pass** page, click **Activate**.
7. On the **Sign up** page, select the country you entered previously, enter the same **First Name**, **Last Name**, and **Email address**, and then click **Next**.
8. Under **Contact phone number**, enter the number of your mobile phone, and then click **Next**.
9. Under **Agreement**, select the **I agree to the subscription agreement, offer details, and privacy statement** check box, and then click **Sign up**.
10. The activation process might take a few minutes—do not refresh or close your browser.
11. If you receive an error message or are unable to complete the process, refer to [**https://www.microsoftazurepass.com/howto**](https://www.microsoftazurepass.com/howto) for alternative activation steps.
12. When the activation process is complete, in Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type [**http://azure.microsoft.com**](http://azure.microsoft.com), click **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
13. Close any initial welcome messages.

#### Task 3: Create a Machine Learning Studio workspace

1. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type [**https://studio.azureml.net**](https://studio.azureml.net), and then press Enter.
2. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign up here**.
3. Under **Free Workspace**, click **Sign In**.
4. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created previously.
5. In the top right of the page, confirm that the workspace is called **&lt;*your name*&gt;-Free-Workspace**.
6. Leave Internet Explorer running.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have a working Machine Learning Studio account and workspace.

## Exercise 2: Explore a sample machine learning experiment

#### Task 1: Open the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment

1. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.
2. In Internet Explorer, in the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
3. On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
4. In the list of samples, click **Quantile Regression: Car price prediction**.
    > **Note:** If there are two similar experiments displayed, select the experiment with the most recent date.
5. Note that this experiment starts with a dataset **Automobile price data (Raw)**, and then includes a range of modules.

#### Task 2: View the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment

1. When an experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.
2. In the **Properties** pane, note the start and end times, and the status code; this shows when the experiment was last run, and whether the run was successful.
3. To view the output from the **Score Model** module, double-click the (lower) output port of the **Score Model** module.
4. Scroll right to locate the **price** and the three **Scores for quantile** columns.
5. The output shows the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles for the price.
6. Click the **price** column, and note that **Statistics** and **Visualizations** are now displayed for this data.
7. Click the **x** at the top-right of the page, to close the visualization.

#### Task 3: Evaluate the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment

1. To view the output from the **Evaluate Model** module, double-click the (lower) output port of the **Evaluate Model** module.
2. Click each column in turn, and note the statistics for each set of data.
3. Click the **x** at the top-right of the page to close the Evaluation results.
4. In the **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, click the user image at the top-right, and click **Sign Out**.
5. Close all browser windows.

**Results:** At the end of this exercise, you will have explored an example machine learning experiment.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
