# Module 8: Using R and Python with Azure Machine Learning

- [Module 8: Using R and Python with Azure Machine Learning](#module-8-using-r-and-python-with-azure-machine-learning)
    - [Demo 1: Processing and visualizing data in R](#demo-1-processing-and-visualizing-data-in-r)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Import the movie data](#import-the-movie-data)
        - [Find the average rating for each movie](#find-the-average-rating-for-each-movie)
        - [Find out how frequently users post ratings](#find-out-how-frequently-users-post-ratings)
    - [Demo 2: Processing and visualizing data with Python](#demo-2-processing-and-visualizing-data-with-python)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Convert the movie data](#convert-the-movie-data)
        - [Import the movie data](#import-the-movie-data)
        - [Find the average rating for each movie](#find-the-average-rating-for-each-movie)
        - [Find out how frequently users post ratings](#find-out-how-frequently-users-post-ratings)

## Demo 1: Processing and visualizing data in R

### Scenario

This demonstration shows how to process data in R, and create plots using the ggplot2 package.

The scenario for this demonstration concerns movies and movie ratings from IMDB. Having been provided with two datasets containing movie information and ratings, you have been asked to provide a report that lists movies in order of their average rating. You have also been asked to produce a group showing how many ratings viewers are posting on a daily basis.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

### Import the movie data

1.	On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
2.	In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**.
3.	On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**. 
4.	If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
5.	In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in the navigation pane, click **NOTEBOOKS**, and then click **+ New**.
6.	Click **R Blank Noteboo**k.
7.	In the **Name Notebook** dialog box, type **Movie Ratings**, and then click the tick button.
8.	On the Windows desktop, open Windows Explorer, move to the **E:\Demofiles\Mod08** folder, and then open the file **MovieRatingsR.txt** using **Notepad**.
9.	Copy the code under the comment **# Download the movie ratings and IMDB movie titles from the sample datasets collection** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the first cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
10.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. The code should run without any errors, but doesn't produce any output.
11.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Examine the first few rows in each dataset** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
12.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code should display the first six rows from each of the two datasets. Note that each movie is identified by a unique ID. The **Timestamp** column in the **ratings** dataset is actually a datetime, but it is displayed as the underlying integer representation used by R.
13.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment #** Merge the two datasets over the movie id** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
14.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code combines the two datasets over the movie ID columns and displays the first six rows of the amalgamated dataset.

### Find the average rating for each movie

1.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# What is the average rating for each movie?** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
2.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code loads the dplyr library, and then creates a dplyr pipeline that:
    -	Selects only the **MovieId**, **Movie.Name**, and **Rating** columns.
    -	Groups the data by **movie ID**.
    -	Calculates the mean rating for each group.
    -	Sorts the groups in descending order of the mean rating.
    The results should be listed with the most highly rated movies at the top, and the least highly rated movies at the bottom (most of the movies are actually omitted from the output because there is a large number of rows).

### Find out how frequently users post ratings

1.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Install the lubridate and xts packages** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
2.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code installs the lubridate and xts packages for handling dates and time-series data, and loads the corresponding libraries.
3.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Step 1: Convert the dataset into an xts object (the Timestamp is a POSIXct datetime)** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
4.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code converts the movie data into a time series with a datetime index and displays the first six rows of the results.
5.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Step 2: Count the number of ratings posted per day** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
6.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code groups the data by day, and then counts the number of ratings posted each day before displaying the first few rows of the result.
7.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Install the broom and ggplot2 packages** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
8.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code installs the broom and ggplots packages for cleaning the time-series data and plotting graphs.
9.	In **Notepad**, copy the code under the comment **# Step 3: Graph the results** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
10.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code converts the data back into a dataframe (ggplot works best with dataframes), and then plots a line graph showing the number of ratings posted each day. The data is quite noisy, but you should notice that there is a peak in activity in late August/early September, and a smaller peak during January.
11.	On the toolbar, click the **Save and Checkpoint** button.
12.	On the **File** menu, click **Close and Halt**.

## Demo 2: Processing and visualizing data with Python

### Scenario

This demonstration shows how to process data in Python using the NumPy and Pandas packages, and visualize the results.

The scenario for this demonstration is the same as the previous demonstration using R. You have been given two datasets containing movie information and ratings, and you have been asked to provide a report that lists movies in order of their average rating. You have also been asked to produce a group showing how many ratings viewers are posting on a daily basis.

>**Note:** There is one additional complication in this demonstration. Some of the movie names in the movie information dataset contain characters that the Python AzureML library cannot handle correctly, so you must first convert this dataset and replace the unreadable characters. Fortunately, the R AzureML library can process these characters, so one solution is to read the dataset using R and write it back as a generic CSV file, which automatically replaces the unreadable characters. This is the purpose of the first step of the demonstration.

### Preparation

Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**.

### Convert the movie data

1.	On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, on the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
2.	In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**.
3.	On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**. 
4.	If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft Account that you created for this course.
5.	In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in the navigation pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**, and then click **+ New**.
6.	Click **Blank Experiment**.
7.	In the experiment items pane, expand **Saved Datasets**, expand **Samples**, and then drag the **IMDB Movie Titles** dataset on to the experiment canvas.
8.	In the experiment items pane, expand **R Language Modules**, and drag the **Execute R Script** module on to the experiment canvas.
9.	Connect the dataset port on the bottom edge of the **IMDB Movie Titles** dataset to the leftmost port on the upper edge of the **Execute R Script** module.
10.	Select the **Execute R Script** module, and in the **Properties** pane, click the **Popout the script editor** button.
11.	In the script editor, delete the existing code and replace it with the following statements: 
    ```
    dataset <- maml.mapInputPort(1)
    maml.mapOutputPort("dataset")
    ```
    This code simply reads the input data (the IMDB Movie Titles dataset), and then passes it straight through to an output port.
12.	Click the tick button in the bottom right-hand corner of the editor to save the script and close the window.
13.	In the experiment items pane, expand **Data Format Conversions**, and drag the **Convert to CSV** module on to the experiment canvas.
14.	Connect the **Result Dataset** port on the bottom edge of the **Execute R Script** module to the port on the upper edge of the **Convert to CSV** module.
15.	Click **Run**.
16.	When the experiment has completed, right-click the **Convert to CSV** module, click **Results dataset**, and then click **Save as Dataset**.
17.	In the **Save output as a new dataset** dialog box, in the **Enter a name for the new dataset** box, type **Movie Names**, and then click the tick button.

### Import the movie data

1.	In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in the navigation pane, click **NOTEBOOKS**, and then click **+ New**.
2.	Click **Python 3 Blank Notebook**.
3.	In the **Name Notebook** dialog box, type **Python Movie Ratings**, and then click the tick button.
4.	On the Windows desktop, open Windows Explorer, navigate to the **E:\Demofiles\Mod08 folder**, and then open the file **MovieRatingsPython3.txt** using **Notepad**.
5.	Copy the code under the comment **# Download the movie ratings and IMDB movie titles from the sample datasets collection** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the first cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
6.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. The code should run without any errors, but doesn't produce any output.
7.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Examine the first few rows in each dataset** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
8.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code should display the first five rows from each of the two datasets. 

>**Note:** Each movie is identified by a unique ID. The **Timestamp** column in the **ratings** dataset is actually a datetime, but it is displayed as the underlying integer representation used by R.

9.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Rename the columns in the movies dataset and reindex it using the MovieId** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
10.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code reindexes the dataset and displays the first five rows.

### Find the average rating for each movie

1.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Import the numpy and pandas modules** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
2.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code loads the numpy and pandas modules.
3.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# What is the average rating for each movie?** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
4.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code groups the dataset by MovieId and calculates the mean of each numeric column. The first five rows of the results are displayed. 
5.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Join the results with the movie data (containing the movie names), and sort by rating** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
6.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code joins the two datasets by using their indexes, and removes the **UserId** and **Timestamp** columns before displaying the results. 

>**Note:** The movies at the bottom of the list have never been rated, so appear with a rating of NaN. In the R demonstration, these rows were not included because they were filtered out by the join operation; the merge operation in Python performs an outer join.

### Find out how frequently users post ratings

1.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Step 1: Reorganize the ratings data to index by the timestamp** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
2.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code switches the index of the movie ratings dataset to enable it to operate as a time series.
3.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Step 2: Count the number of ratings for each day ('D')** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
4.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code groups the data by day, and then counts the number of ratings posted each day. It removes the UserId and MovieId columns, and changes the name of the column containing the count of ratings to NumRatings before displaying the first few rows of the result.
5.	In Notepad, copy the code under the comment **# Step 3: Graph the results** to the clipboard, and then paste this code into the next cell in the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook.
6.	In the **Movie Ratings** Jupyter notebook, on the toolbar, click **Run cell**. This code imports the matplotlib module, sets the size of the plot area, and then plots a line graph showing the number of ratings posted each day. The graph should be the same as that generated by the R demonstration in the previous lesson.
7.	On the toolbar, click the **Save and Checkpoint** button.
8.	On the File menu, click **Close and Halt**.


---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.