# Module 1: Introduction to Machine Learning

- [Module 1: Introduction to Machine Learning](#module-1-introduction-to-machine-learning)
    - [Demo 1: Using two-class classification in a machine learning model](#demo-1-using-two-class-classification-in-a-machine-learning-model)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [Open an experiment in Machine Learning Studio](#open-an-experiment-in-machine-learning-studio)
        - [View the results](#view-the-results)
    - [Demo 2: Using R and Python](#demo-2-using-r-and-python)
        - [Scenario](#scenario)
        - [Preparation](#preparation)
        - [View an example R script](#view-an-example-r-script)
        - [View an example Python script](#view-an-example-python-script)
        - [View an example SQL query](#view-an-example-sql-query)

## Demo 1: Using two-class classification in a machine learning model

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how:
- Two-class classification algorithms can be used in the development of a machine learning model.

### Preparation

1.	Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and then log on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.	On the Start menu, type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3.	In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**, and then press Enter.
4.	On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
5.	Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

### Open an experiment in Machine Learning Studio
1.	In the Mi**crosoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
2.	On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
3.	In the list of samples, click **Binary Classification: Flight delay prediction**.
4.	This experiment uses historical on-time performance and weather data to predict whether the arrival of a scheduled passenger flight will be delayed by more than 15 minutes. There are two possible classes: the flight will be delayed, or it will be on time. The classes are labeled 1 if the flight was delayed, and 0 if the flight was on time.
5.	Point out that this experiment starts at the top with two datasets: **Flight Delays Data** and a **Weather Dataset**.
6.	The experiment then includes a range of modules; you will go into more detail about these modules later in this course.
7.	For now, the key things to note are that the data is prepared, and then two different algorithms are applied: **Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree**, and **Two-Class Logistic Regression**.

### View the results
1.	Point out that, when an experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.
2.	Because two different algorithms have been applied, there are two sets of results to look at.
3.	To view the output from the **Score Model** module for the **Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree**, right-click the (lower) output port of the left-hand **Score Model** module, and then click **Visualize** (or double-click this output port).
4.	Scroll right to locate the **Scored Labels** and **Scored Probabilities** columns.
5.	These two columns, **Scored Labels** and **Scored Probabilities**, are the prediction results. The **Scored Probabilities** column shows the probability that a flight was delayed and, therefore, belongs to the positive class (Class 1). For example, the first number in the column (0.42537) means there is 0.42537 probability that the first flight belongs to Class 1. The **Scored Labels** column shows the predicted class for each flight. This is based on the **Scored Probabilities** column. If the scored probability of a flight is larger than 0.5, it is predicted as Class 1. Otherwise, it is predicted as Class 0.
6.	Click the **x** at the top-right of the page, to close the results page.
7.	You will now compare these results with those for Two-Class Logistic Regression.
8.	To view the output from the **Score Model** module for the **Two-Class Logistic Regression**, right-click the (lower) output port of the right-hand **Score Model** module, and then click **Visualize** (or double-click this output port).
9.	Scroll right to locate the **Scored Labels** and **Scored Probabilities** columns.
10.	In the **Scored Probabilities** column, the first number in the column is 0.398238, which means there is 0.398238 probability that the first flight belongs to Class 1 (and was delayed). 
11.	Leave Internet Explorer running, ready for the next demo.

>**Note**: Do not cover details of Machine Learning Studio at this stage—do not show the sign-in, and so on; Machine Learning Studio is covered in Module 2 of this course.

## Demo 2: Using R and Python

### Scenario

In this demonstration, you will see how:
- R scripts can be used within the development of a machine learning model.
- Python scripts can be used within the development of a machine learning model.
- SQL queries can be used within the development of a machine learning model.

### Preparation

This demonstration continues from the previous one. 
Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\AdatumAdmin**. Also ensure that Internet Explorer is running, and that you are logged into the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.

### View an example R script

1.	In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
2.	On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
3.	In the list of samples, click **Sample 1: Download dataset from UCI: Adult 2 class dataset**. 
4.	Click the **Execute R Script** module.
5.	In the **Properties** pane, above the **R Script** box, click the **Popout the script editor** icon.
6.	In the **R Script** editor, point out the basic steps in the script:
    - Inputs are mapped to variables.
    - Column names from the first dataset are merged with data from the second dataset.
    - Merged data is sent to the module output.
7.	Click the **x** at the top-right of the page to close the R Script editor.

### View an example Python script

1.	In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
2.	On the **experiments** page, click SAMP**L**ES.
3.	In the list of samples, click **Execute Python Script**. 
4.	Click the **Execute Python Script** module.
5.	In the **Properties** pane, above the **Python script** box, click the **Popout the script editor** icon.
6.	In the **Python script** editor, point out the basic steps in the script:
    - Import packages.
    - Process text and store words.
    - Build a feature vector for the data.
    - Convert feature vector to a data frame object.
7.	Click the **x** at the top-right of the page to close the Python Script editor.

### View an example SQL query

1.	In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
2.	On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
3.	In the list of samples, click **Sample 8: Apply SQL transformation**. 
4.	Click the first **Apply SQL Transformation** module.
5.	In the **Properties** pane, above the **SQL Query Script** box, click the **Popout the script editor** icon.
6.	In the **SQL Query Script** editor, point out the basic steps in the script:
    - Get data from the three data sources (customer data, restaurant feature data, ratings data.
    - Join the data.
7.	Click the **x** at the top-right of the page to close the SQL Query Script editor.
8.	Close Internet Explorer.

>**Note**: Do not cover details of Machine Learning Studio at this stage.

---

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.